1.  What was a time where you had a disagreement with a teammate/coworker? How did you resolve it?

	I took "Introduction to Machine Learning" in my final semester of university, and the final project in this class was a team project where we had to implement a machine learning algorithm from scratch to solve a problem of our choosing. Everyone in my team, me included, was interested in tackling a problem related to space, and we all came up with different ideas for what specific problems we wanted to do. I suggested a project where we train a machine learning model to predict the compositional type of an asteroid based on its absolute magnitude (brightness), albedo (surface reflectivity), and reflectance spectra. A teammate politely disagreed with this idea; he pointed out that the number of examples in the JPL Small-Body Database that had all the required attributes was too small for us to train a complex machine learning model. I double-checked and found that he was right; even when simplifying required attributes to just absolute magnitude and albedo, the dataset size was enough for a simple machine learning algorithm, but not for a more complex algorithm fitting the scope of our final project. Therefore, I let him know that I agreed with him, and that a different project idea would be better. After further discussion, I looked at an older suggestion from another teammate, which was to train a model on stellar light curves collected by the Kepler Space Telescope to predict whether stars have exoplanets or not. Upon finding out that this dataset had a few thousand examples, and was therefore complex enough for our project, I mentioned to the team that I liked this suggestion, and added that a convolutional neural network would be well-suited for this problem. My team agreed, and we submitted a project proposal to write a convolutional neural network from scratch and use it to predict whether stars have exoplanets.

2.  These past twelve months, what is the hardest project bug you have had to fix, and how did you fix it?

	In the fall of 2025, I was working on a prototype customer relationship management (CRM) tool with a team for a humanitarian non-profit. One of my main tasks was to implement a data ingestion pipeline so the client could export data from their legacy CRM and import it into our tool. To do this, we set up a database that had tables corresponding to the Excel sheets the client showed us from their legacy CRM export. One of the tables we defined was titled "Users" and contained employee data. This table proved to be problematic later on because we couldn't properly create new records. We also found that our authentication system, Better Auth, was acting up. After investigating, I found that Better Auth also defines a "Users" table for storing accounts, so when we added Better Auth to the application, Better Auth's "Users" table attributes were merged into our existing "Users" table. To fix this and make the two systems work properly, I defined a separate "LegacyUsers" table for containing employee data imported from the legacy CRM and reserved the "Users" table for Better Auth alone. Therefore, we were able to track employee data and user accounts without the two being "merged."

3.  Tell me about a time you worked with a client who lacked technical knowledge of the topic.

	In computing, the clients I've worked with so far have been knowledgeable about software development. However, I have a lot of experience working with laypeople through the Meteorite Education and Research Lab (MERL) at UT Dallas. MERL's aim is to educate students and the public about meteorites (and broadly speaking, planetary science), and our "flagship" activity was hosting public meetings where people who believe they found meteorites could bring their rocks to us, and we would show them the meteorite identification process, tell them our thoughts on their rock's meteorite status, and in the process, teach them about space. Most of our visitors who came to these meetings were curious about meteorites but had little scientific knowledge of them, and as MERL's lab manager, I wanted to explain the science of meteorites to them in a way that was engaging and easily comprehensible. To do this, I engaged visitors in conversation, encouraged them to ask questions, invited them to look at and hold actual meteorites from our collection, and explained things like the different types of meteorites, their properties, and how they formed, in a colloquial and jargon-free manner. I enjoyed making meteoritics approachable and interesting in this way, and it was gratifying to see visitors being so interested in all of the new things they were learning. Through my tenure at MERL, I honed in my skill of breaking down complex, technical concepts in a digestible way for interested laypeople, which translates well to client-facing software work.

4.  What project are you proudest of?

	In fall 2025, I was enrolled in a class that paired teams of students with local non-profits and had these teams solve technical problems for these non-profits. Non-profits benefited because they could get inexpensive solutions, and students benefited because we could get real-life work experience while benefiting good causes. My team worked with a humanitarian non-profit that was using a popular CRM that lacked features they needed, such as restricting data access based on employee rank, and that tasked us with building a prototype for a custom CRM that would provide these features without the cost of the legacy CRM. As the client liaison, I met with the "tech leads" at the non-profit every week and was impressed by their professionalism and dedication to their work. Additionally, as my technical role in the project was to develop a data ingestion pipeline that took data exports from the legacy CRM, extracted the data, and imported it into the prototype CRM, I could see first-hand that this market CRM, despite being a very popular choice for non-profits, was deficient in certain important aspects, including the way their data was organized. I'm very proud of this project because I had the opportunity to help fill a gap that the market for non-profit-oriented CRMs hadn't already filled, and in the process, played a part in providing better tools to a serious non-profit doing very respectable work.

5.  Give me an example of a time when you were able to take meaningful action in solving a practical problem.

	Last year, my family had our house expanded and repainted. The painters primarily spoke Spanish and my family did not. However, because I learned Spanish in high school and have been practicing it since, I am able to speak and understand it at an intermediate level, so my family requested that I be their translator. Whenever my family wanted to let the painters know what was needed or wanted to ask them if they'd like any snacks or drinks, they would ask me to convey their message to them, and when the painters wanted to let us know about the status of the job, they would notify me, after which I'd let my family know. Acting as a translator made the painting process much smoother for both sides; it especially helped that even though I am not 100% fluent in Spanish, the painters appreciated my effort and likewise put effort to make sure I could understand them.

6.  Think of a crisis situation, during which things got out of control. Why did it happen and what role did you play?

	In my final semester of college, I worked on a team machine learning project where we were tasked with implementing a machine learning algorithm from scratch and using it to tackle a problem of our own choosing. We chose to train various 2-layer convolutional neural networks (CNNs) on labelled stellar light curves from the Kepler Space Telescope and determine the optimal model for predicting whether a star has exoplanets or not. We built our project in a Google Colab notebook, which was helpful during programming because we could work together and execute separate "blocks" of the program separately. When it came time to test our models, we found out that the free tier of Google Colab had a time limit on program execution that was much too short for us to run our full experiment. Considering our experiment would have taken eight hours total, it was also unfeasible to run it on our laptops. I remembered that due to an unrelated research project I was working on, I had access to a high-powered computing (HPC) cluster at UT Dallas, so I rearranged the program into a simple .py file and ran it remotely on the HPC cluster overnight. By next morning, we had the full results of our experiment and we were able to write an in-depth report using this data to analyze the possibilities and limitations of using CNNs to detect exoplanets.

7.  Tell me about a time when you were confronted with an ill-defined task and describe the methods you used to clarify the situation in order to find a solution.

	In my final semester of college, I participated in a machine learning research project with the Flow Dynamics and Turbulence (FDT) Laboratory at UT Dallas, where I was tasked with finding the optimal model for predicting future wave heights from past wave heights. As I started working with real-life measurements from the lab's wind-wave tank, I was wondering about the actual, physical nature of what I was trying to model and predict: what the numbers I had meant, how the data was gathered, what the practical use is going to be, etc. My project supervisor invited me to visit the FDT Lab sometime and see the wind-wave tank for myself so I could get a good idea of the ground situation. This was exactly what I needed, so I contacted the TA who was going to be conducting experiments and arranged to visit the lab. On that day, I watched them run trials with the wind-wave tank and asked that TA questions about how the data was being gathered (in response, he showed me wave gauges that were suspended from the top of the tank) and what they intend to use the model and predictions for (in response, he explained how it allows them to simulate wave heights between the gauges). Because of this, I had a strong grasp of the actual nature of what I was modeling, and I was able to design my models and project keeping in mind what they were actually planning to use the model's predictions for.

8.  What is your typical role as a group member?

	I tend to be a communicator and reviewer in addition to my standard technical duties. I like to talk with my other teammates about what they are doing so I can build a mental model of our project, and I naturally double check our work and point out and fix technical mistakes that I see. This also means that when we are writing reports on our project, I play a big part in writing and reviewing it to ensure it is accurate, legible, and professional. For example, in my final semester of college, I took an "Introduction to Machine Learning" course where, for the term project, we were expected to group up and implement a machine learning algorithm from scratch to solve a problem of our own choosing. I am very interested in outer space, so in our class chatroom, I took the initiative of saying that I am forming a group to tackle a space-related problem. After people joined my group, we shared ideas and chose another group member's proposal: training convolutional neural networks on stellar light curves from the Kepler Space Telescope to see whether they can detect exoplanets. I was the principal author of the project proposal where I explained what light curves are, how they are used to detect exoplanets, why we are using convolutional neural networks, and how our dataset is complex enough for the project. During the project, my principal technical contribution was building the pipeline that evaluated and tested different convolutional neural network configurations. I was a major contributor to the project report, where I presented performance metrics and plots, analyzed them, and explained how and why the models behaved the way they did, along with proofreading other sections of the report. Because I naturally tend towards communication (both within our group and with professors/clients) and reviewing our work, I played a major role in keeping our project coherent, grounded, and presentable from start to finish.

9.  Describe a time in your past work or education experience when you have had to work with people who possessed a wide variety of educational levels. What challenges did you experience in this situation?

	UT Dallas is home to the Meteorite Education and Research Lab (MERL), a faculty-supervised and student-run lab that hosts an interactive meteorite collection and teaches students and the public about meteorites and planetary science. When I was MERL lab manager, our "flagship" activity was hosting public meetings where people who believed they found meteorites could bring their rocks to us, and we would show them the meteorite identification process, tell them our thoughts on their rock's meteorite status, and in the process, teach them about space. A few of our visitors had pre-existing knowledge of meteoritics or a general scientific background, but most were normal people who had little to no scientific background. As MERL's lab manager, my main challenge when explaining the science and identification of meteorites to visitors was that I wanted to make my explanations simultaneously scientifically accurate, easy to understand regardless of your education level, and interesting to listen to. To do this, I engaged visitors in conversation, encouraged them to ask questions, invited them to look at and hold actual meteorites from our collection, and explained things like the different types of meteorites, their properties, and how they formed, in a colloquial and jargon-free manner. Our explanations were well-received and guests routinely thanked us at the end of their meteorite evaluations for teaching them so much about meteorites.

10. Can you give me an example of a time when you took the initiative at work?

	UT Dallas is home to the Meteorite Education and Research Lab (MERL), a faculty-supervised and student-run lab that hosts an interactive meteorite collection and teaches students and the public about meteorites and planetary science. When I became lab manager, I tasked myself with getting the lab more organized. For example, I observed that while our meteorites were held in multiple drawers, there were not separated by what types they were. This meant that in any drawer, you would have an arbitrary combination of chondritic, achondritic, stony-iron, and iron meteorites, and if you were trying to find a specific meteorite, you would need to go through all of the drawers. I reorganized the meteorite collection according to type, so if me or anyone else wanted to find a specific meteorite specimen, for example, a high-iron chondritic meteorite, we could go straight to the drawer of high-iron chondritic meteorites and look for our desired meteorite there. This made it significantly easier to locate specimens and assess the amounts we had of different kinds of meteorites. Additionally, we had undocumented meteorites in the lab, and I took the initiative on getting them identified and documented. For example, when looking through old emails, I found an email chain about a professor having donated a piece of the Odessa iron meteorite to the lab, which made me wonder if an anonymous iron meteorite we had in our collection was this donated piece of Odessa. I emailed this professor asking if this was the meteorite he donated, and after he confirmed it, me and another student at MERL labelled the meteorite with marker (standard practice) to permanently document its identity.
